I think if you're in the tech industry,
and I've been in this industry for 25
years, of course, this is a
unprecedented level of change, but
change has been the constant and you
just have to thrive in it. I'm like a
kid in the candy store right now looking
at all of the new ways in which we can
help customers and so you have to
embrace it and when people around you
see that you're excited about it and you
are learning, you are answering
questions. For what's really it's really
interesting you said kid in the candy
store. Yeah, actually to me that's the
bar. Like sometimes people get mad when
I say this. Especially when I talk to
product teams or engineering teams. If
they're not saying this is the kid in
the candy store age, you have the wrong
team. They should be excited. They
should be going home at night and
screwing around and coming up with they
should be doing internal hackathons even
though you haven't had one in 5 years.
They should be like finally some cool
stuff they can do. If you're not seeing
that, it's brutal. But you got the wrong
team. The last 5 years were boring. We
were doing the same playbook and we were
trying to push the same. Exactly. So if
you don't feel that it was interesting
even how many said it like that's a
sign.
Hey everybody, this episode is brought
to you by Adio, the AI native CRM. Just
connect your email and Adio instantly
builds a powerful CRM with every company
contact and interaction you've ever had.
Get 15% off your first year. That's 15%
off your first year at
atio.com/saster. That's
addio.com/saster.
[Music]
Y, thanks for coming back to Sass. Yeah,
so good to be back here. Great.
Absolutely. So, I couldn't think of
anyone actually better to tie to that
opener in terms of everything that's
changing. I mean there are if we look at
the public SAS companies that are like
classicish B2B no one's doing much
better than HubSpot but so much change
right so much change so much change so I
want to get into that first of all who
in the audience is a HubSpot customer
thank you so much good most of us all
right so if y if we have time we'll save
a little bit of time for questions
because we have so many customers so a
couple folks want questions we will save
some time so think about some questions
hey first off I have been to SAS for the
last decade. I came in person when I was
a dropout. I did the video one with you.
This is incredible. Congratulations. And
the insights that you add to go to
market leaders is just incredible.
Congratulations. Thank you. Thanks for
being part of it. It's good.
It's a lot of change. I feel like now
like there's different eras. There was
the pre2020 era. Yes. where it was
smaller, but like we're all doing the
same thing, right? Yes. And then then
there was this weird era from 2020 to
2023. Like first of all, we were all
geniuses. Like we talked about before,
we were all geniuses in 2020, 2020. Were
we? Yes. I completely agree. I was
listening backstage and we thought that
we were good, but we were going with the
same playbook and getting the excesses
of that playbook. That is gone. Gone.
Gone. Yeah. And then last year, it's
good you weren't here last year. Last
year was great. like in terms of
quality, but it was a low point in terms
of this transition vibe. Like people
were still feeling bad for themselves
that people were still there's no
Listen, it is not easy at HubSpot today,
is it? It's not easy. Totally not. But
there's no downturn, is there? No, but
we are working harder to get to the same
kind of output. I was just agreeing with
what you're saying. It is a new playbook
and for a company like HubSpot we
absolutely want to keep all of you
existing customers happy and we are
reimagining what go to market looks like
in the world of AI so it's a lot of ants
and that means there's also higher
anxiety anxiety yeah and how since you
do how are you I see it in what you
write I certainly see in what Darmsh has
done right but how are you helping
create urgency at the company because I
would say of all the public companies,
HubSpot seems to be executing the
quickest. I'm sure it's not as fast as
you want. It is not enough. We'll talk
about it, but it's fairly fast. So, how
have you actually created because that's
a tough question. How do how have you
helped create the urgency?
It is not fast enough. And my team will
hear this from me every single day.
Look, I think November 2022 is such a
pivotal moment. AI was there before.
Generative AI was there before, but
November
2022 showed us that you can now interact
in a very different way with technology
and get more done. And so for us coming
into 2023, we just finished the annual
planning process. We had the road map.
We knew exactly what we were doing. We
came into January 2023 and we said
pivot. That entire road map that we just
planned for the last 3 to 4 months is
not going to be what we are building in
2023. And so we pivoted our entire
company at the beginning of January
2023. We started building whole set of
new features. The first set of features
that Dhmesh helped us launch that our
teams launched was March 2023. We
launched our first chat spot now called
co-pilot in March 2023. Then we launched
a number of content features in March
2023. So it was like immediately
pivoting. But Jason, I don't think it
has been easy. There was just a lot of
question. I think you mentioned this
2023 and 24, lot more skeptical voices,
a lot more, yeah, this is going to be
like every other big tech fad that was
out there. This is just going to go
away. But I think internally we felt
like this is the first time that some
immovable metrics in go to market can be
moved. I've been in go to market and
I've been in tech for the last 25 years.
There are things in sales where what is
the percentage of time that your sales
team spends in front of customers. I
want you to think about this number
because this number has been 25% to 35%
for more than a couple of decades. We've
not been able to move the time we spend
in front of customers because we are
trying to do all these administrative
tasks. We've not been able to expand the
account coverage that every single
salesperson has. You give your
salespeople 100 accounts. Guess what
they cover
actually? Maybe 40. They cover 40 out of
100. 40% of the accounts get better
coverage. So there have been these key
metrics in go to market that we've not
been able to move that AI is now going
to help us move. And so for us it has
been just pivoting towards that and I
would say that it comes from the top.
One of the reasons like I do a five
minute video for our entire company. We
call it a weekly rap and I send it out
every Friday and I'm demoing what how
I'm using AI and I'm demoing how our
teams are using AI. We're talking about
where we're getting benefit where we are
seeing real customer value and so it has
to come from the top. So those of you
who are leading organizations, go to
market teams, your founders, you have to
lead from the front and you have to
believe that there is value for your
customers and you have to be able to
showcase that value for customers. Yeah.
Let me I've got a few things I want to
dig in on it, but we were chatting
before when we were catching up. I don't
want I might have misqued you so reframe
it but you said something to me that
I've seen but I still thought it was
fairly stunning which was that on
product development side on coding yes
because of you're using tools like
cursor and others whatever the suite is
it almost doesn't matter you now almost
have a you almost have too much product
to ship into production right is it that
different than a year ago I might be
slightly misquing you but it was
dramatically higher output of product so
I completely agree with what you said
just a little bit earlier which is
coding and support. These two use cases
have sat on product market fit with AI.
No question. We're not going back. If
you're not doing it, you're already
behind. I think coding and support are
done, right? Like we know that there is
product market fit. What I was
mentioning is that we we started with
the first generation of co-pilots with
coding and it had some level of
productivity. there was some value in
it. Now we're on to the second
generation with things like cursor with
cloud code and obviously MCP and the
combination of all of that is certainly
driving the productivity within our
engineering organization. We track what
percentage of our teams use AI every
single day. Within engineering it is
95%. Using one form of agentic code
generation every single day and that
means we have to be even more careful
about what we ship. It's not just the
velocity of shipping something as new
features. It is what is the value.
Everything in this age and we'll talk
about this but the business model is
changing. It's not like what product you
shipped and how much you can get for
that product. it is where is there value
and how much work is getting done
because of AI and we're becoming even
more focused on usage and value that we
generate through all of those
development efforts. Yeah. And let's
let's just talk about support for a
minute because you get it but not
everyone really understands why it's
working. Yeah. But people don't
understand how good it is now with AI.
Typically what I've tell metrics you've
seen but typically what I've seen is you
a good AI and support that's it it does
have to be trained like you usually do
have to train it but you're usually
going to be out of the box 10% in seesat
y and for depending on how and maybe
deflect 40 to 50% of the issues and
maybe resolve another 20 to 30% of
routine questions you still need humans
in those cases right you do but the an a
for an average question a great
well-trained A is better than a human
isn't it? Here's what we have seen. Um,
and maybe why is support a great use
case? I think because there's a lot more
documentation and anywhere there is
documentation, anywhere there is data,
anywhere there is history and anywhere
there is a known amount of finite work,
AI is a great way to solve that. And if
you take the tiers of support, tier one
support tickets, you should not be using
humans at all because you have
documentation, you have a support
history of how you've solved it and you
can get all of this. And so I think
internally we started using AI for our
tier 1 support tickets, but we had a
counterbalancing measure which is sees.
So you can't solve tickets with AI
without knowing that you're maintaining
or improving your customer satisfaction.
So those two metrics go hand inand for
us and internally we've gotten it close
to 45% solved with AI. Now last year at
inbound which is HubSpot's conference we
launched customer agent and the use case
is support tickets and we have over 200
customers now on customer agent 52%
average resolution rate with AI and we
have customers that have between 70 and
80% of their tickets getting resolved
with AI and we are like watching the
patterns of these customers really
closely what is the difference between
someone who is solveing having 40% with
AI and 80% with AI. It comes down to
knowledge and knowledge based articles.
And now we launched a second agent which
actually identifies the knowledge gap
and says from your unstructured data
from your emails conversations you're
having on how you're solving that we can
write a knowledge article and AI writes
that knowledgebased article and gives it
back to the team to look at approve and
that is way to improve that overall rate
but 70% 80% resolution is happening
right now and so It's incredible in a in
15 to 18 months we have seen such a huge
improvement. And what is I probably
should know this but what if I'm what
how much training how much time does it
take me to get there in HubSpot like how
is it an hour two hours is it doing an
extra hour a week like how it's not zero
is it for it is it's look it's not zero
and it really starts with having well
doumented knowledge bases and
history that has taken is get your
knowledge base into the agent get all of
your support tickets and history into
the agent sync up all of your website
data. You can read now hundreds of web
pages in matter of seconds. So sync up
your pricing data, all of the website
information, sync up your community
answers, all of that stuff. Now if you
have that readily available, it is a
matter of few hours to get that in few
hours, then it is a question of
reinforcing are you happy with it? But
it's also another point which is where
do you want handoff to humans? Because
this is where you started earlier. It's
not all AI. AI is augmenting your
support teams to drive a higher level of
productivity. So where do you hand off
and how do you make sure that handoff
between agents and humans and sometimes
back to agents is really smooth? That's
where we're working most of the time on.
Yeah. And where that this handoff the do
you think that ratio will keep going up?
Do you think you it will can go up to
80% 90% automated as we get better over
the because the rate of change is so
fast. the rate of change is fast. I
think that there will still be a portion
which is going to be for humans to
solve. I don't think there's a lot of
hype and there's a lot of you'll get to
zero headcount. I don't believe that to
be the case. I think there's tremendous
value in working with agents reinforcing
the learning but also having humans
really read the particular case and be
involved. So I think there will still be
humans augmenting the work that AI is
doing and vice versa. So handoffs are
going to be really important and that's
in general not just in support. I think
AI working with humans and handoffs
being seamless is going to be important
for every function within go to market
that is customerf facing. What do you
and I want to dig into some HubSpot AI
stuff that I have slides next but let me
ask you since you're running the leading
company that does all of this. I don't
know if you heard the story I gave
backstage. Yeah. Of a leading B2B
company where the SDR asked me if I
wanted to meet at Saster next week. This
I got an email this morning. Okay. Hey
Jason, I saw you're going to be at
Saster next week. Next week. Okay. This
morning. We want to meet next week. This
is a leading company. When you hear that
in the age of AI,
is that going to be gone next year? Is
there a role for that human? Because
can't AI do better than that human? Do
we even need that type
of pretty low performing knowledge
professor? Like how do you react
managing an organization that in general
and with like how does that how do you
react to that and someone that's got a
sales background that is egregious. I
hope it's not from HubSpot. Not I could
but I could tell you three other story
cuz people ask me Jason why does this
always happen to you? You know people
ask but you could do it too. It's just
because I know I just look I just enjoy
I don't enjoy it but when I get that
email I don't I like I have a little fun
with it. I make it a case study. I'm not
going to put the vendor absolutely but I
but it happens every week I get an email
like this. So how's it going to change
with AI? Look the the biggest change
that's happening is that you have to do
more to get your customers and prospects
to pay attention to you. There's just an
explosion of content. There's an
explosion of emails. There's explosion
of outreach. And how are you going to
cut through that noise? Not by first of
all if you have like egregiously wrong
information like oh your conference is
next week then you're out like you don't
even get 10 seconds in that email and
you become a case study for what not to
do but then it becomes a what does it
actually take for a CEO like you to open
that email and to engage. It better be
exceptionally targeted. It better be
personal not personaliz personalized.
We've been talking about personalization
for a very long time, which is you
segment your customers. You take your
customers and you personalize your data
and send it to everybody in that
segment. That doesn't cut it anymore. It
needs to be personal. It needs to be
Jason. Here are the four posts that you
did. Here is why I can help you with
this single problem that you have and
let me get 10 minutes with you. Yeah. I
sometimes get and I was telling our
sales team yesterday that in the last
two weeks I've gotten two videos and
they were personal videos and they're I
don't know if it was AI generated or not
and it actually didn't matter but they
actually said something very specific
about what I talked in the earnings two
weeks ago and how they can specifically
help that caught my attention. So I
think junk and irrelevant content and
both humans and agents not doing their
job, yes, is not going to cut through.
But humans and agents doing their job,
understanding your very specific context
and sending you a personal message is
what will cut through. And we are going
through that massive transition. It's
not volume of content. It is really how
personal it is that is going to drive
conversion. It's almost like we have to
readjust all of our scorecards. It's not
we've gotten used to in the old playbook
increase the volume of leads, increase
the amount of pipeline, increase
everything. And it's been this focus on
volume. It really needs to be focused on
conversion because the volume is
exploding. Now it is all about how do
you convert and how can you be very
relevant, very personal so that you can
make that connection. And that is what
AI is going to help. It has to be
personal a bit thing. I'm curious your
thought. I've seen this. So sometimes we
still get these ter like SAS for next
week, right? There's another thing I'm
cur and I'm curious where you think
it'll go or actually what I'm seeing now
is great first email, terrible second
one. Yeah. The first one's AI. I saw on
the earnings
calls doing this, but I saw you have
this one issue around personalization of
this. We've got a back-end solution with
RA and it's great and it's and then
you're like great. Tell me, can I do
this? And then I get the worst email
after that because all the steps have to
be per have to be S tier now to get the
attention don't they? I think the
question becomes how is there a handoff
is the second email written by a human
and probably so I think there's a
throughout the journey you now have the
ability to know what your prospect wants
your customer needs what the last
conversation was. If you got that first
email answered, what was the very
specific point that they were interested
in? How can you go deeper? I started in
the industry in sales more than 20 years
ago at this company called Seabull. This
was the original CRM company. And before
every conversation with the customer, my
preparation was like 2 hours. I would
read 10Ks. I would read 10 cues. I would
look at transcripts. I would look at
anything that was publicly available
about that company, their challenges,
their strategy. And I would ask very
pointed questions. And asking questions
was the biggest thing that I learned
early in sales. And I think that has
become even more important in the age of
AI. How can you ask the most relevant
questions on what your customer is
facing right now so that you can get the
next answer and the next answer? It's
like every email what you're working for
is getting the response. Every meeting
what you're working for is getting the
next meeting. That's all you have to
focus and you have to be just brilliant
at it. Yeah. I worry that as our AIS get
better for a while the handoff for human
might get worse. It might get worse
because it's a crutch. I'll tell you the
email I got. It was basically an email
like this. It was like, Jason, I saw
that you just did this interview with
Yammon. It's faster. It was terrific. I
really like the point she made about
agent to agent conversations. I have a
way to create your entire podcast
automation for you. I can create the
clip. I can redo it. I can do everything
your team's doing. I can automate it for
you. Here are the three folks. I've done
it for you. I can do it. I could even do
it for free for you this week. That's a
problem I have. It is great. That is
fantastic. So, I responded. I'm like,
"Saster annual's coming up in a week. I
have no time, but if you can do this for
real, I'll pay for it right now." This
is my response. You won the deal. I get
the human response back. Oh, what what
is your podcast and how many do you do?
Go to Apple, go to our blog, go to
Spotify. We've done 801. Yes. What is
your podcast and what do you do? That
was You asked the question. That was the
human responding to the AI. The AI was
so good and I actually said, "I'm so
busy. Take my money. Yeah, just just I
just That's a good That was a good AI.
Take my money, but not a great handoff.
Not a great handoff. So, I've got a
slide here. I know there's a lot here to
see. So, we don't have to literally go
through it, but I wanted to break out
two things. Give tell me what you're
what you think HubSpot will do with AI
in whatever time frame, 12 months, 9
months, end of the year. Y you can talk
a little bit about today, but what are
you really excit what are you going to
be we going to be able to automate in
HubSpot like in the next 12 months that
you're already working on? Yeah. And
maybe a step back took you back to the
journey of January 2023. Yeah. I think
couple of important decisions that we
needed to make back then was there's
going to be one product which is an AI
first customer platform and that is an
important decision to make because there
were a lot of folks building an AI skew
with an AI price and like a separate
thing that you would do and I think for
us it is did anybody buy black and white
TV after color TV came out the answer is
no. So you went after AI there is no
product that should not have AI in it.
And so I think that was the fundamental
way in which we approached our product
roadmap and to simplify this very
complex and comprehensive slide we embed
AI in everything that we do. So every
product that we have has AI features in
it and we have a co-pilot which is a
digital assistant which means any go to
market employee should be able to ask
questions of the co-pilot to be able to
get answers and then we have agents that
do work for you. Now in the industry
there's just a lot of confusion about
what is a co-pilot what is an agent? Do
you need both? And there's a fight over
you don't need co-pilots, you only need
agents. And the simplified version is
you actually need both. Co-pilots help
you do work and agents do work for you.
And there's a fundamental difference in
what is happening with technology
because forever software and technology
and specifically B2B we've built it so
that and we've driven innovation and
we've poured billions into R&D across
all the application companies so that we
can help someone sitting in their seat
to be able to do more with their time
and that has been the last generation of
technology and software. I think what is
happening now is that you are not
constrained and technology is getting
more work done for you when you may not
be there. If you have a customer agent
and that's answering questions, that
website question or the question that
comes into you might happen at the
middle of the night when nobody is
working and that's still answering
questions for you. And so there's a
fundamental shift that's happening which
is how is work getting done? And I give
that context because we believe that you
need both co-pilots and agents. And if
you look at what, you know, we're trying
to do is that we launched four agents
last year. We added one more agent this
year. We're here to prove product market
fit. We just want to make sure that
every customer that's actually
leveraging an agent is getting clear,
consistent, repeated value from those
agents. So, if you're using a customer
agent, it should like clockwork be able
to solve your tier one and maybe even
tier 2 tickets. If you're using a
prospecting agent, it should look at
your entire customer base and be able to
tell you what are the best prospects to
go after and even help you set up
meetings with those prospects. Content
agent should look at the distribution of
the content that you have and be able to
say, "Here is the best channel to put
this content in. here's how I would cut
it for Instagram. Here's what I would do
for YouTube. It should be able to help
you do that work. And that's what we're
trying to prove. And what is interesting
is that in the world of applications
before it was somewhat predictable. You
go in, you point, you click and you can
see what the customers are doing. I
think in AI it's very new usage
patterns. And so all of us in the
industry have to be very curious about
what those usage patterns are because we
just can't go back to what we saw within
technology and usage in the last 10
years. It's a new playbook. So we are so
obsessed about what are they clicking?
Which ones have daily repeat usage
versus weekly repeat usage versus
novelty use? Because what's happening in
the industry is there are novel neat AI
things. We've all used it in our
personal life. You we've used it once
and it has this beautiful image that it
creates and then we never go back to it.
That's just neat. But AI has to be
necessary. It has to go from just being
neat to being necessary to being in the
flow of everyday work in order to have
the promised transformative benefits
that we all think there is. And so
that's what we're obsessed about is just
a couple questions. I want you said
that. So HubSpot's got I think six core
products right now, right? Six
as they all have an AI and as you said
AI is core to HubSpot. It's not an
upsell. It's not a it's not an addition.
It's not a 60 bucks a month extra
feature.
Are those products blending more into
one with because AI can stretch AC it's
stretch across them. the difference
between sales support marketing service
if it's one AI I'm communicating with
the products aren't always they're
getting less distinct aren't they tell
me why you're asking this this is I'm
very excited that you're getting there
but tell me why you're asking this
there's two reasons one it might be on
the next slide but I'll tell you the
real reason I'll go back oh yeah in what
I've seen in I think the bleeding edge
here and B2B has been in e-commerce
e-commerce is because it's super high
volume, super transactional. And in
e-commerce, the lines between sales and
support were always blurry. Y in B2B, I
buy the product often with a human and
then support handles the headaches and
customer success smooths over the bumps.
In e-commerce, when I go to buy some
cool shoes or this neat bracelet online,
I might want to buy it, I might have a
question. Is this in my size? Is this is
do you have it in gold? or I might need
a return or I might there's a myriad of
things or I might come to the site for
the bracelet but I'm got to get disaster
I might need a coupon so I go back later
so that's marketing sales support and
what is what I've seen from the
companies I'm close to in e-commerce
they're already blended clavio gorgeous
all these folks in the Shopify ecosystem
they're already merging into one AI and
it's almost it's incredible the pace
that is happening classic B2B is beh but
HubSpot is in this unique position where
you have all the apps. Yeah. So, I just
think this idea that I talk to this SDR
that thinks Sasser is next week and then
I have to talk to an AE and then I have
to talk to a CSM that doesn't know who I
am and then the marketer's got to get
the data and learn like the customer
wants and I'll tell you one less the
customer wants one experience and the
interesting thing in e-commerce this
just literally changed a couple months
back my secret gaming chairs. I'm not a
gamer, but all the gamer Anyone have a
secret chair? No game. Not enough
gamers. All the gamers you'll watch on
YouTube. They all have these secret
chairs. Oh, yeah. It's the If you're
going to sit in your If you're going to
stream all day, I always wanted one
other. Yeah. We'll get you a We'll get
you. And you can brand them on the spot.
You can brand them. They're pretty cool.
So, I go to buy one with my son. We're
I'm at his college. He's a freshman and
we're tired and we like bought the wrong
chair or something. So, I had to switch
it. And there's five links. There's
chat, our new chat GBT. There's support.
There's sales. There's questions and
there's like literally five chats. Yeah.
On this site. I go back. There's one.
Yeah. There's one. So I asked that
question. This little quote from John
Keys at this. Totally. But not that many
in B2B have all the whole stack. Right.
I'm so excited that you're like going
here because I think two things are
happening. One is that the usage
patterns are creating a blur of lines
between the different functions in B2B
just like it created in B2C and like
other places. And this is exactly right
like we launched our customer agent and
we were specifically thinking about the
support use case and we're obsessively
watching like how are customers using
this agent and what is the daily usage
patterns and what is interesting is that
they're not only you know when someone
is using a customer support agent
they're also asking about pricing
questions they're also asking about the
next event that is getting thrown the
next webinar that you can attend and so
for them. It's not, oh, this is a
service product and I now can only ask
questions about a ticket. It is I'm your
customer and I have questions. That's
it. It is not I'm your question. I'm
your customer and I have a service
question, a marketing question, a sales
question. So, you literally cannot do
that when you put an agent out there.
And this is one of the realizations that
we had. the lines are blurring and at
the end of the day you serve your
customer. Your customer does not need to
know which work they're dealing with and
we've been saying this for a while in
our industry. It is now possible to do.
I do think the lines are blurring and in
order to do that the level of
documentation, the level of history, the
full context of the customer journey
needs to be there and we do think that's
one of the reasons why platforms will
continue to win. point agents will not
win in this whole race that we are in.
That's one part of it. There's another
subtle thing that is happening which is
we have in B2B software always focused
on providing technology for specialists.
BDR has a tool, a pre-salesperson has a
tool, a solution consultant has a tool,
a salesperson has a tool, a content
manager has a tool, a video editor has a
tool. There is we've really provided
tools for specialists and what AI is
going to help us do is to enable
generalists in marketing. You might not
be the translation expert but you can
now translate. You might not be the
video editing expert but you can edit
your videos right now. You might not be
specified like social channel media
expert but AI is going to help you do
that. So I think it's also going to lead
to more generalists that can then
leverage technology to be able to do
more. So that's fascinating as well.
Yeah. Maybe just two thoughts. One about
HubSpot and then more about John's
insight here, your insight. But I also
think if I'm thinking like 2024, 2023,
Yep. everyone here's a HubSpot customer.
But maybe some is for they're old
school. They're just marketing. Maybe a
lot are just CRM because HubSpot owns
CRM for this community. But I maybe in
2024 I might use two vendors or three
vendors. Y I feel
like in 2026 I might be like if I just
have one AI. I really don't want my hubs
my AI leaving my platform and going to a
different AI. I want this whole thing to
be transparent to the customer. So I
think I in ideal world I want one app
that does it all and I think I want to
do all tons of agents. So we're not
going to take it lightly. We're just not
going to assume that we have the ability
to provide that platform. We're going to
fight for it. Because while the premise
is that point agents cannot solve more
than point questions and you as a
customer, you'll need to be able to
answer all the questions for your
customers. That is given. Yeah. If you
peel back the onion, think about what
does an agent need? An agent needs to be
onboarded just like your employee needs
to be onboarded. When your employee
joins your company, what do you do in
the first week for that employee? You
provide your products, your ideal
customer profile, your brand voice, your
tone, your competitive differentiation,
your value proposition. You're actually
training your employee with all of that
context so that the employee can
contribute, you know, meaningfully to
your organization. That's the same thing
that's happening with agents. When you
onboard an agent, you provide the same
thing. Your brand, your tone, your
knowledge base articles, your history,
your ideal customer profiles. And when
you do that with the most exhaustive and
unified set of data, then your agents
can actually perform better. And so you
really have to start thinking about what
is this required to leverage AI. It is
more unified data. It is data across
your entire customer journey and it's
context about you your company. I prompt
like crazy and I'm spending time on
cloud. I'm spending time on chat GPT and
I probably do tens of prompts but I have
a generic one which is this is my role.
This is what I do for HubSpot. This is
our company. This is our customers. Now
I have a question for you. like that
first part of the prompt. I'm just going
to assume anytime I prompt that's there
as part of my prompt and then I write
the second part of the prompt which is a
more specific question and your
applications need to do the same thing.
You shouldn't have to give that context
every time you use an agent. It should
just be available for you and that is
the difference. Yeah. And just for folks
that maybe are behind here, this point
that I highlighted, Yam already brought
it up, but this the team started using
it beyond service is pretty profound. Y
our own little AI 140,000 chats. Yeah,
it was just I thought people would ask
about what Yamin said when she was at
Dropbox. They've reviewed hundreds of EC
pitches, hundreds of board sections.
They've written SDR pitches. There have
been a lot of therapy sessions with
Digital Jason about their business
slowing down. There have been a lot of
conversations about whether they should
fire a CRO or a CMO and RAI which I
didn't know RAI closed one sponsor here.
That's amazing. But I wouldn't have I
wouldn't have as experiment. And so the
fact that HubSpot at their scale can see
it already do more than service if
you're not in production with your
customers letting them drive you. You're
not in the old one of the old Saster
posts which I know you would agree with
is everyone needs to do customer support
or you don't learn, right? Yeah. So prei
you do customer sort, oh my god, I can't
believe we're saying that or oh my god,
I can't believe our product has. You
learn these, you learn like things that
you knew but were a little different.
With AI, the customers take you places
you did not expect it to go, right?
That's power. Yeah. You have to be
obsessed about usage patterns. What are
they clicking? What are they returning
to? And then we're constantly sifting
between neat and necessary. Yeah. Daily
usage and one-time use. And that's the
pattern that you have to like really
follow this whole thing of every company
needs a website, every company now needs
an agent. Here's the thing. What was
happening in the previous generation is
you search and then you clicked and then
you consume information. That is the
pattern that as an industry that we're
using that we've used for the last
couple of decades, search is gone. Like
we're not just searching to get to
information anymore. AI overviews are
actually providing answers. So waiting
for search to lead traffic to your
website is gone and that is one thing.
The other pattern that is emerging is
that it is not search click and consume.
It is have a conversation. That is the
new pattern. And so it we're now in this
mode of a completely different pattern
which is all about ask a question and
get an answer. You're not pointing,
clicking, searching, consuming. You're
just asking a question in your natural
language and getting an answer. And
that's a huge paradigm shift. And that
means a lot of things in go to market
has to change based on that. It is a
huge you I now I was actually the reason
I put the slide up is the bottom part,
but now I get the bottom the top part
much better, right? Which is the whole
idea of a website is somewhat dated,
right? Website now is a carrier, a
vehicle to interact with, we can call it
an agent. The terms agent have one. I
like to just call it an AI. Yeah. It is
a carrier so that I can talk to an AI in
a variety of vehicles. Prospect,
customer, user, and have it do things. I
don't know everything that you're
getting here, but if your website is a
static website with a data chat for
research, like you're falling rapidly
behind. Everyone wants to talk to their
documents to their vendors. Like they
just want to talk to these things.
Exact. Exactly. That's the shift. Yeah.
It's a big shift. I think the
interesting thing is you the other thing
I learned from RA AI not to get on a
tangent because I do want to at least
talk about partners before we're out of
time even though it's not AI is why does
our AI work so well at Aster and I guess
this is an obvious point and some people
make fun of it because it's a conceit
but when they're talking to me if you
have I don't know if you have a Yam AI
like Brian does but if you put one on
the HubSpot website right not everyone
knows who the CEO of HubSpot is honestly
you have 260,000 customers but a lot of
them know they will talk to Yeah. And
because they'll talk to you or me, the
prompts are inherently different. Y
they're specific because they've been
reading SAS for 12 years. Jason, I know
you did this thing at SAS with Y last
week and you talked about how we have to
motivate the team. I've got a a CRO
who's angry and yelling at me that she
doesn't want like that inherently
creates the right prompt. I just I don't
even know I don't even know if we should
be prompt experts in a year. Should we?
I still think there is benefit in that.
I don't think like everything is going
to be like so obvious and easy that the
conversation that you and I have is
going to replicate itself. I do think
that you have to be decent at writing
the context for the prompt and being
good at prompting. I don't think it's
going away. It's asking a lot for a
customer, isn't it? Yeah. To become
fascinating. Y All right. I want to we
got back to AI with the questions, but I
know AI is really exciting, but this one
in just in terms of helping folks learn.
Yeah. I find so many founders do not
understand partners and indirect sales.
So many partners I was literally
catching up with an up andcoming VP of
sales I know who just washed out at a
company at 30 million. Yeah. And I said
to him, "What happened? I know you I
would recommend you in a heartbeat." We
went into an environment that was 60%
indirect, 40% direct. You only ran
outbound, talked to the customers
myself, was pretty good at it. What
happens when it's 40% of your revenue?
Revenue declined. Exactly. Even though
that 40% I bet he tilted the curve,
right? Yeah. Look, I think that as an
industry we got fascinated with
productled growth. Yeah. To the point
where we solve everything with
productled growth and that is not the
case in go to market. There is a sales
team and how you actually bring them to
the most productive use. There is a
whole partner ecosystem and then of
course there's productled growth and for
HubSpot 40% of our ARR has been
influenced by partners that is either
they are bringing us leads or they are
co-selling with our sales team and
helping them close. Those two are what
we call as influenced and if there are
HubSpot partners here thank you because
we love having you in the ecosystem and
it's been a great journey to one we've
had that 40% for from the time that we
were like 100 million to now we're close
to 3 billion in ARR we've had partners
be part of that it's stayed 40%. Yeah.
So they've scaled and we are and in the
old days a lot of these were agencies or
smaller shops. That ratio has probably
changed who they are, right? I
absolutely. So the couple of big
transformations that have happened
within our partner ecosystem. Most of
our partners, we have about 7,000
partners and most of them started as
agencies, marketing agencies building
websites and it was great. Then as we
started expanding from marketing to
sales to service to content and building
an entire platform, we went to our
ecosystem and we said look this is the
journey that we are on. We're going from
an app to a suite to a platform and now
to an AI powered platform. So come on
this journey and we've spent a lot of
time talking to them about their journey
and many of them it's just one of the
most fulfilling things for me to see
many of them have transformed what their
organizations were to now become CRM
implementers and AI powered CRM
implementers. That's one part of the
journey. The other part of the journey
was when we got started we were really
focused on SMB and most of our customers
were 100 200 person companies. Now we've
gone north of that. We're serving
customers with thousand 2,000 sometimes
3,000 employees and our partners have
gone on that upmarket journey with us
and they've done a wonderful job and it
requires a lot of focus. It requires
creating vibrant ecosystem where there's
support and it is it's been just this
wonderful journey and that's why you see
these numbers out here. Yeah. I think
what folks might not realize is that we
talked in the opener about modes versus
momentum. Yeah. Maybe it's changing
today, but at least in the past, most
HubSpot partners only work on HubSpot.
Yeah. So, if the customer goes to the
partner or the agency, Y, they're not
going to look at three vendors because
listen, I need help with my CRM. I need
help with my marketing. We will help
you. We deploy HubSpot. So, it is if you
not only if you ignore partners do you
maybe lose 40 to 50% of your revenue.
Yep. But it's super hard to compete when
they're HubSpot like web buyers can if
they have the energy they can evaluate
100 vendors really it's two or three.
Yeah. But in but with partners it's just
one isn't it? Yeah. How many of them
sell 11 11 other competitors? Not 70% of
our partners are focused very
specifically on HubSpot and yeah it's a
huge moat. There are modes and there is
momentum and a lot of them are getting
disrupted. But I do think having a great
partner ecosystem is a very good mode.
Yeah. Whatever you do as founders at
least this direct thing even if you
don't know anything about sales direct
is intuitive. Okay. I got to email
somebody get them. Study your ecosystem.
Yep. If your ecosystem is in any way
partner driven and you'll see if you go
super if you go like into security or
enterprise sometimes it's 100% whiz is
all partners. you want to compete with
whiz and you want to sell direct in like
you're just going to lose but at least
study at least calmly study your market
and don't make this mistake this VP of
sales co said who obviously didn't study
the market they see like if you don't
adapt to these ratios you're just going
to lose you're just we're not all direct
buyers but all right thanks I got more
questions but you guys have questions in
the last session Jason said that 20 to
40% of the workforce might not make the
cut I'm now this is a tough one for yam
but Keep going. Yeah, I did say that.
Yeah, I was interested in knowing who
makes the cut at HubSpot. What skill
sets or trades or strengths are you
prioritizing for the future for those
that remain? Yeah. Curiosity and growth
mindset. That's what will make the cut.
And I think that I agree with with
Jason. If you're trying to slow roll AI,
if you think that this is going to go
away, if you're not investing in
yourself and developing a level of AI
fluency, then you've pretty much lost
the game. And so I think that is what we
are focused on within HubSpot. Thank you
so much. U first of all, thanks for the
great session. It's awesome and it's
insightful. My question is that you in
the beginning you mentioned about the
after champ release you changed the
business road map and product road map.
So what would be the good attitude that
CEO would need to have to cope with
change because things are changing
dramatically and I would like to
understand how you cope with change and
what kind of do you prepare for it.
Yeah, you just embrace it. I think if
you're in the tech industry, and I've
been in this industry for 25 years, of
course, this is a unprecedented level of
change, but change has been the constant
and you just have to thrive in it. I'm
like a kid in the candy store right now
looking at all of the new ways in which
we can help customers and so you have to
embrace it and when people around you
see that you're excited about it and you
are learning, you are answering
questions and a lot of times this is a
time to say I don't know. I say this
within the company a lot. If there's a
question I don't know, I'm like I don't
know. This is like two-year-old
phenomena. So, how would we know? And
so, I think being able to role model how
you are thriving with change will
encourage others to do the same thing
with change. Thank you. For once, I want
to take another question, but it's
really interesting you said kid in a
candy store. To me, that's the bar. Like
sometimes people get mad when I say
this, but when I especially when I talk
to product teams or engineering teams,
if they're not saying this is the kid in
the candy store age, you have the wrong
team. They should be excited. They
should be going home at night and
screwing around and coming up, but they
should be doing internal hackathons even
though you haven't had one in 5 years.
They should be like, "Finally, some cool
stuff I can do. If you're not seeing
that, it's brutal." But you got the
wrong team. The last five years were
boring. We were doing the same playbook
and we were trying to push the same
thing. Another stock What? Yeah. Another
compliance. I got a billy. Now I can do
that's fun. Exactly. So if you don't
feel that it was interesting even said
it like that's a sign. Thank you Yamy
for being here. I do have a question but
the first question is hopefully Brian
Halagan's doing well. I know he's the
founders had an accident. I don't know
if he's still involved in HubSpot or
not. He is but my question is involving
scaling. So, does HubSpot have a direct
competitor? I used to describe HubSpot
as the easy to use Salesforce. Yeah. And
I know you mentioned that you guys can
handle companies now with 2,000 to 3,000
agents. Can you go enterprise? Yeah. So,
on the first part, thank you for asking
about Brian. He's doing great. He's
fully recovered. He's continues to be
involved. He's on our board and he's
doing fantastic. and I particularly
enjoy having conversations with him and
learning from him. So I think it's good
on how we think about the segments that
we serve. We really care about ease of
use and time to value. And we think that
the segment which is 2 to 2,000 employee
segment which most of us can call it as
like a mid-market segment. They've been
underserved. they've been underserved
because there's like very complex
enterprise tools that try to fit into
that market or there's like point
solutions that you have to cobble
together and it has been underserved. We
focus on that particular segment and we
want to serve it really and we want to
be the market leader within that
segment. HubSpot runs on HubSpot. We're
an 8,500 person company, but that
doesn't mean that we want to take our
product all the way up to the
enterprise. We really want to focus on
serving scaling companies really well.
Thanks. Just one followup. I have when I
my my epiphany we did we did this in
2021 all outdoors out there. Pretty
funny. Yeah. And that was the first time
when I asked this question this type of
question nobody in 2021 now was
migrating off HubSpot. Yep. What I meant
in the old school people everyone loved
HubSpot but when HubSpot CRM was early
folks would use it and then graduate to
Salesforce. Then in 2021 I was like okay
no one's really doing this now. 3,000. I
mean, but the folks that are now at that
next level, you want to stay with them
forever, don't you? We can. And like I
said, HubSpot went on to HubSpot and
we've grown and scaled over the last 5
years. We've gone from 4,000 employees
to 8,500 and we've continued to scale on
HubSpot. So, it's not necessarily
product scalability, but which focus
market do you really want to serve? And
that's where it comes down to. I just
literally haven't been I I haven't It's
been years since I've been in some sort
of meeting where someone said we've
gotten too big. I just don't hear it.
Yep. It's just an interesting evolution.
Yeah. I just don't hear it. Good. All
right. The next time you come to SAS,
we'll talk about price and bread. It'll
be totally different. Thanks everybody.
Let's give you money if they can.